Public Law 117-128
117th Congress

                                 An Act



  Making emergency supplemental appropriations for assistance for the
situation in Ukraine for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and
       for other purposes. <<NOTE: May 21, 2022 -  [H.R. 7691]>>

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,  That <<NOTE: Additional
Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2022.>>  the following sums are
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2022, and for
other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $67,000,000,
to remain available until expended, for expenses authorized by section
524(c) of title 28, United States Code, to respond to the situation in
Ukraine and for related expenses:  Provided, That amounts provided under
this heading in this Act may not be used to increase the number of
permanent positions:  Provided further, That amounts provided under this
heading in this Act may be transferred to, and merged with, other
appropriation accounts of the Department of Justice, to respond to the
situation in Ukraine and for related expenses: <<NOTE: Russia.>>
Provided further, That amounts provided under this heading in this Act
may be used to investigate, seize, detain, forfeit, inventory,
safeguard, maintain, advertise, sell, or dispose of any property, real
or personal, tangible or intangible, related to Russian aggression,
including Russian aggression toward Ukraine, or for any other necessary
expense incident to the seizure, detention, forfeiture, or disposal of
such property:  Provided further, That the authorities included in the
preceding proviso are in addition to any other authority provided by
law.

[[Page 136 STAT. 1212]]

                                TITLE II

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'',
$12,750,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, to respond to
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses, including for
hardship duty pay.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', $37,500,
to remain available until September 30, 2022, to respond to the
situation in Ukraine and for related expenses, including for hardship
duty pay.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'',
$675,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, to respond to
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses, including for
hardship duty pay.

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'',
$1,590,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, to respond to
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses, including for
hardship duty pay.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'',
$1,493,532,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, to respond
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'',
$939,779,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, to respond
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air
Force'', $195,262,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, to
respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

[[Page 136 STAT. 1213]]

                 Operation and Maintenance, Space Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Space
Force'', $800,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, to
respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $15,256,824,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022,
to respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses:
Provided, That of the total amount provided under this heading in this
Act, $6,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023, shall
be for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative:  Provided further,
That such funds for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative shall be
available to the Secretary of Defense under the same terms and
conditions as are provided for in section 8139 of the Department of
Defense Appropriations Act, 2022 (division C of Public Law 117-103):
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this heading
in this Act, up to $9,050,000,000, to remain available until September
30, 2023, may be transferred to accounts under the headings ``Operation
and Maintenance'' and ``Procurement'' for replacement of defense
articles from the stocks of the Department of Defense, and for
reimbursement for defense services of the Department of Defense and
military education and training, provided to the Government of Ukraine
or to foreign countries that have provided support to Ukraine at the
request of the United States:  Provided further, That funds transferred
pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be merged with and available for
the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to
which the funds are transferred:  Provided further,
That <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  the Secretary of Defense shall
notify the congressional defense committees of the details of such
transfers not less than 15 days before any such transfer:  Provided
further, That <<NOTE: Determination.>>  upon a determination that all or
part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary
for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back
and merged with this appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer
authority provided herein is in addition to any other transfer authority
provided by law.

                               PROCUREMENT

                        Missile Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Army'',
$350,970,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, to respond
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked
Combat Vehicles, Army'', $255,000, to remain available

[[Page 136 STAT. 1214]]

until September 30, 2024, to respond to the situation in Ukraine and for
related expenses.

                     Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'',
$45,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, to respond to the
situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

                         Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'',
$113,440,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, to respond
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

                         Other Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'',
$1,250,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, to respond to
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

                     Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'',
$28,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, to respond to
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'',
$155,382,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, to respond
to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'',
$24,218,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, to respond to
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

                    Defense Production Act Purchases

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Production Act Purchases'',
$600,000,000, to remain available until expended, to respond to the
situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and
Evaluation, Army'', $128,700,000, to remain available until September
30, 2023, to respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related
expenses.

[[Page 136 STAT. 1215]]

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and
Evaluation, Navy'', $43,000,000, to remain available until September 30,
2023, to respond to the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

          Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and
Evaluation, Air Force'', $119,815,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, to respond to the situation in Ukraine and for
related expenses.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $72,103,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, to respond to the situation in Ukraine and for
related expenses.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                      Defense Working Capital Funds

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital Funds'',
$965,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, to respond to
the situation in Ukraine and for related expenses.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'',
$13,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2022, which shall
be for operation and maintenance to respond to the situation in Ukraine
and for related expenses.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 201.  In addition to any other funds made available for such
purposes, $500,000,000 is hereby appropriated for an additional amount
for the Department of Defense and made available for transfer to
``Missile Procurement, Army'', ``Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and
Marine Corps'', ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', ``Missile Procurement,
Air Force'', and ``Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force'', only for the
procurement of critical munitions to increase stocks of the Department
of Defense:  Provided, That none of the funds <<NOTE: Time
period. Execution plan.>>  provided under this section in this Act may
be obligated or expended until 60 days after the Secretary of Defense
provides to the congressional defense committees an execution plan:
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>>  not less than
30 days prior to any transfer of funds, the Secretary of Defense shall
notify the congressional defense committees of the details of any such
transfer:  Provided further, That upon transfer, the funds shall be
merged with and be available for the same purposes, and for the same
time period, as the appropriation to which transferred:

[[Page 136 STAT. 1216]]

 Provided further, That the transfer authority provided under this
section is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law.

    Sec. 202.  In addition to any other funds made available for such
purposes, $50,000,000 is hereby appropriated for an additional amount
for the Department of Defense and made available for transfer to
``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', only to
develop program protection strategies for Department of Defense systems
identified for possible future export, to design and incorporate
exportability features into such systems during the research and
development phases of such systems, and to integrate design features
that enhance interoperability of such systems with those of friendly
foreign countries:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Time period. Execution
plan.>>  none of the funds provided under this section in this Act may
be obligated or expended until 60 days after the Secretary of Defense
provides to the congressional defense committees an execution plan:
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>>  not less than
30 days prior to any transfer of funds, the Secretary of Defense shall
notify the congressional defense committees of the details of any such
transfer:  Provided further, That upon transfer, the funds shall be
merged with and be available for the same purposes, and for the same
time period, as the appropriation to which transferred:  Provided
further, That the transfer authority provided under this section is in
addition to any other transfer authority provided by law.

    Sec. 203.  During <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  fiscal year 2022,
section 331(g)(1) of title 10, United States Code, shall be applied by
substituting ``$950,000,000'' for ``$450,000,000''.

    Sec. 204.  The <<NOTE: Reviews.>>  Inspector General of the
Department of Defense shall carry out reviews of the activities of the
Department of Defense to execute funds appropriated in this title,
including assistance provided to Ukraine:  Provided,
That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the Inspector General shall provide to the
congressional defense committees a written report not later than 120
days after the date of enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 205.  Not <<NOTE: Coordination. Reports.>>  later than 45 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in
coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit a report to the
Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives and the Committees on Appropriations, Armed
Services, and Foreign Relations of the Senate on measures being taken to
account for United States defense articles designated for Ukraine since
the February 24, 2022, Russian invasion of Ukraine, particularly
measures with regard to such articles that require enhanced end-use
monitoring; measures to ensure that such articles reach their intended
recipients and are used for their intended purposes; and any other
measures to promote accountability for the use of such articles.

    Sec. 206.  Not <<NOTE: Time period. Coordination. Reports. List.>>
later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 30
days thereafter through fiscal year 2023, the Secretary of Defense, in
coordination with the Secretary of State, shall provide a written report
to the Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and Foreign Affairs
of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Appropriations,
Armed Services, and Foreign Relations of the Senate describing United
States security assistance provided to Ukraine since the February 24,
2022, Russian invasion of Ukraine, including a comprehensive list of the
defense articles and services provided to Ukraine and the associated
authority and funding used to provide such articles

[[Page 136 STAT. 1217]]

and services:  Provided, That such report shall be submitted in
unclassified form, but may be accompanied by a classified annex.

                                TITLE III

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                      Nuclear Regulatory Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $2,000,000,
to remain available until expended, to provide regulatory and technical
support related to the situation in Ukraine:  Provided, That,
notwithstanding section 102 of the Nuclear Energy Innovation and
Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 2215), such amount shall not be derived
from fee revenue.

                                TITLE IV

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                 cdc-wide activities and program support

    For an additional amount for ``CDC-Wide Activities and Program
Support'', $54,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023,
for carrying out public health and disease detection activities related
to the situation in Ukraine, and for medical support, screening, and
other public health activities related to populations displaced from
Ukraine, both domestically and internationally.

                Administration for Children and Families

                     refugee and entrant assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Refugee and Entrant Assistance'',
$900,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023, for carrying
out refugee and entrant assistance activities in support of citizens or
nationals of Ukraine, or a person who last habitually resided in
Ukraine, for whom such refugee and entrant assistance activities are
authorized:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Grants. Contracts.>>  amounts made
available under this heading in this Act may be used for grants or
contracts with qualified organizations, including nonprofit entities, to
provide culturally and linguistically appropriate services, including
wrap-around services, housing assistance, medical assistance, legal
assistance, and case management assistance:  Provided further, That
amounts made available under this heading in this Act may be used by the
Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement (Director) to issue
awards or supplement awards previously made by the Director:  Provided
further, That <<NOTE: Allocations.>>  the Director, in carrying out
section 412(c)(1)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1522(c)(1)(A)) with amounts made available under this heading in this
Act, may allocate such amounts among the States in a manner that
accounts for the most current data available.

[[Page 136 STAT. 1218]]

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 401. (a) <<NOTE: 8 USC 1101 note.>>  In General.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a citizen or national of
Ukraine (or a person who last habitually resided in Ukraine) shall be
eligible for the benefits described in subsection (b) if--
            (1) such individual completed security and law enforcement
        background checks to the satisfaction of the Secretary of
        Homeland Security and was subsequently--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  paroled into the United
                States between February 24, 2022 and September 30, 2023;
                or
                    (B) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  paroled into the
                United States after September 30, 2023 and--
                          (i) is the spouse or child of an individual
                      described in subparagraph (A); or
                          (ii) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  is the parent,
                      legal guardian, or primary caregiver of an
                      individual described in subparagraph (A) who is
                      determined to be an unaccompanied child under
                      section 462(g)(2) of the Homeland Security Act of
                      2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2)) or section 412(d)(2)(B)
                      of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
                      1522(d)(2)(B)); and
            (2) such individual's parole has not been terminated by the
        Secretary of Homeland Security.

    (b) Benefits.--An individual described in subsection (a) shall be
eligible for--
            (1) resettlement assistance, entitlement programs, and other
        benefits available to refugees admitted under section 207 of the
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1157) to the same
        extent as such refugees, but shall not be eligible for the
        program of initial resettlement authorized by section 412(b)(1)
        of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1522(b)(1));
        and
            (2) services described under section 412(d)(2) of the
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1522(d)(2)), subject
        to subparagraph (B) of such section, if such individual is an
        unaccompanied alien child as defined under section 462(g)(2) of
        the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2)).

    (c) Clarifications.--
            (1) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to:
                    (A) preclude an individual described in subsection
                (a) from applying for or receiving any immigration
                benefits to which such individual is otherwise eligible;
                or
                    (B) entitle a person described in subsection (a) to
                lawful permanent resident status.
            (2) Section 421(a) of the Personal Responsibility and Work
        Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-193)
        shall not apply with respect to determining the eligibility and
        the amount of benefits made available pursuant to subsection
        (b).

    (d) Non-Application of the Paperwork Reduction Act.--Chapter 35 of
title 44, United States Code (commonly referred to as the Paperwork
Reduction Act of 1995), shall not apply to any action taken to implement
this section that involves translating a currently approved collection
of information into a new language.

[[Page 136 STAT. 1219]]

                                 TITLE V

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs

                           diplomatic programs

    For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic Programs'', $190,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2024, to respond to the
situation in Ukraine and in countries impacted by the situation in
Ukraine.

                         capital investment fund

     For an additional amount for ``Capital Investment Fund'',
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended, to respond to the
situation in Ukraine and in countries impacted by the situation in
Ukraine.

                       office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'',
$4,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024.

             embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Embassy Security, Construction, and
Maintenance'', $110,000,000, to remain available until expended, to
respond to the situation in Ukraine and in countries impacted by the
situation in Ukraine.

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'', $17,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2024, to respond to the situation
in Ukraine and in countries impacted by the situation in Ukraine.

                       office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'',
$1,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024.

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                    international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'',
$4,348,000,000, to remain available until expended, to

[[Page 136 STAT. 1220]]

respond to humanitarian needs in Ukraine and in countries impacted by
the situation in Ukraine, including the provision of emergency food and
shelter, and for assistance for other vulnerable populations and
communities, including through local and international nongovernmental
organizations.

                          economic support fund

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'',
$8,766,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, for
assistance for Ukraine and countries impacted by the situation in
Ukraine, including for programs to combat human trafficking, of which up
to $760,000,000 may be made available to prevent and respond to food
insecurity:  Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading in
this Act may be made available notwithstanding any other provision of
law that restricts assistance to foreign countries and may be made
available as contributions.

                           Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'',
$350,000,000, to remain available until expended, to address
humanitarian needs in, and to assist refugees from, Ukraine, and for
additional support for countries in the Eastern European region impacted
by the situation in Ukraine.

                    INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                           Department of State

           international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and
Law Enforcement'', $400,000,000, to remain available until September 30,
2024, for assistance for Ukraine and countries impacted by the situation
in Ukraine, including for programs to combat human trafficking and to
document and collect evidence of war crimes and crimes against humanity
committed by the Government of the Russian Federation in Ukraine.

     nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For an additional amount for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism,
Demining and Related Programs'', $100,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2024, for assistance for Ukraine and countries impacted by
the situation in Ukraine.

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                   foreign military financing program

    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing Program'',
$4,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, for
assistance for Ukraine and countries impacted by the situation in
Ukraine.

[[Page 136 STAT. 1221]]

                         MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE

                  International Financial Institutions

  contribution to the european bank for reconstruction and development

    For payment by the Secretary of the Treasury to the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development and its trust funds and facilities,
$500,000,000, to remain available until expended, for assistance and
related programs for Ukraine and countries impacted by the situation in
Ukraine:  Provided, That such amount shall be subject to the same
authorities and conditions as if such amount was made available by title
V of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs
Appropriations Act, 2022 (division K of Public Law 117-103).

              global agriculture and food security program

    For an additional payment to the Global Agriculture and Food
Security Program by the Secretary of the Treasury, $150,000,000, to
remain available until expended.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 501.  During <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  fiscal year 2022,
section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2318(a)(1)) shall be applied by substituting ``$11,000,000,000'' for
``$100,000,000''.

    Sec. 502.  During <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  fiscal year 2022,
section 614 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2364) shall
be applied--
            (1) in subsection (a)(4)(A)(ii), by substituting
        ``$1,000,000,000'' for ``$250,000,000''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)(4)(C), by substituting
        ``$200,000,000'' for ``$50,000,000'', ``$1,000,000,000'' for
        ``$250,000,000'', ``$1,000,000,000'' for ``$500,000,000'', and
        ``$1,750,000,000'' for ``$1,000,000,000''.

    Sec. 503.  During <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  fiscal year 2022,
section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2348a(c)) shall be applied by substituting ``$100,000,000'' for
``$25,000,000''.

    Sec. 504. (a) Section 2606(a) of the Ukraine Supplemental
Appropriations Act, 2022 (division N of Public Law 117-
103) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 785. Time period.>>  is amended by striking
``fiscal year 2022'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2022 through 2024'':
Provided, That funds made available under the heading ``Foreign Military
Financing Program'' in this title shall be available for loans under
such section.

    (b) During fiscal years 2022 and 2023, funds made available under
the heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' in this Act and prior
Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign
operations, and related programs may be utilized by Ukraine for the
procurement of defense articles, defense services, or design and
construction services that are not sold by the United States Government
under the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.):  Provided,
That <<NOTE: Contracts. Notification.>>  such procurements shall be
subject to the applicable notification requirements of section 38 of the
Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778).

[[Page 136 STAT. 1222]]

    Sec. 505. (a) Funds appropriated by this title under the headings
``Diplomatic Programs'', ``Capital Investment Fund'', ``Embassy
Security, Construction, and Maintenance'', and ``Operating Expenses''
may be transferred to, and merged with, funds available under such
headings and with funds available under the heading ``Educational and
Cultural Exchange Programs'' to respond to the situation in Ukraine and
countries impacted by the situation in Ukraine.
    (b) Funds appropriated by this title under the headings
``International Disaster Assistance'' and ``Migration and Refugee
Assistance'' may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated
by this title under such headings.
    (c) Funds appropriated by this title under the heading ``Economic
Support Fund'' may be transferred to, and merged with, funds available
under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia''
for assistance and related programs for Ukraine and other countries
identified in section 3 of the FREEDOM Support Act (22 U.S.C. 5801) and
section 3(c) of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of
1989 (22 U.S.C. 5402(c)) and under the headings ``Transition
Initiatives'' and ``Complex Crises Fund'' to respond to the situation in
Ukraine and in countries impacted by the situation in Ukraine.
    (d) Funds appropriated by this title under the headings
``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'',
``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', and
``Foreign Military Financing Program'' may be transferred to, and merged
with, funds appropriated by this title under such headings to respond to
the situation in Ukraine and in countries impacted by the situation in
Ukraine.
    (e) The transfer authorities provided by this title are in addition
to any other transfer authority provided by law.
    (f) <<NOTE: Consultation. Notifications.>>  The exercise of the
transfer authorities provided by this title shall be subject to prior
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the
Committees on Appropriations.

    (g) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Upon a determination that all or part
of the funds transferred pursuant to the authorities provided by this
title are not necessary for such purposes, such amounts may be
transferred back to such appropriations.

    Sec. 506.  Not <<NOTE: Reports.>>  later than 30 days after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and Administrator of
the United States Agency for International Development shall jointly
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations on the proposed uses
of funds appropriated by this title, with the exception of funds
appropriated under the heading ``Multilateral Assistance'':  Provided,
That the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a separate report, not
later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, for funds
appropriated under the heading ``Multilateral Assistance'':  Provided
further, That <<NOTE: Updates. Time periods. Termination date.>>  such
reports shall be updated and submitted to the Committees on
Appropriations every 60 days thereafter until September 30, 2024, and
every 120 days thereafter until all funds have been expended.

    Sec. 507. (a) Funds made available by this title under the heading
``Economic Support Fund'' may be made available for direct financial
support for the Government of Ukraine, and such funds shall be matched,
to the maximum extent practicable, by sources other than the United
States Government.

[[Page 136 STAT. 1223]]

    (b) <<NOTE: Memorandum.>>  Funds made available to the Government of
Ukraine as a cash transfer under subsection (a) shall be subject to a
memorandum of understanding that describes how the funds proposed to be
made available will be used and includes appropriate safeguards for
transparency and accountability:  Provided, That such assistance shall
be maintained in a separate, auditable account and may not be comingled
with any other funds.

    (c) <<NOTE: Time periods. Reports.>>  At least 15 days prior to the
initial obligation of funds made available for the purposes of
subsection (a), the Secretary of State or the Administrator of the
United States Agency for International Development, as appropriate,
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report
detailing procedures and processes to ensure such funds are used by the
Government of Ukraine in the manner agreed to by such Government,
including details on the memorandum of understanding and appropriate
safeguards for transparency and accountability required by subsection
(b), if applicable:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Updates.>>  such report
shall be updated every six months following the submission of the first
report and shall be submitted until funds made available for such direct
financial support are expended.

    (d) <<NOTE: Reports. Time period. Termination date.>>  The Secretary
of State or the Administrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, as appropriate, shall report to the
appropriate congressional committees on the uses of any funds provided
for direct financial support to the Government of Ukraine pursuant to
subsection (a) and the results achieved, not later than 90 days after
the date of enactment of this Act and every 90 days thereafter until
September 30, 2025:  Provided, That such report shall also include the
metrics established to measure such results.

    (e) <<NOTE: Notifications.>>  Funds made available for the purposes
of subsection (a) by this title shall be subject to the regular
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                                TITLE VI

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 601.  There is hereby appropriated to the Secretary of
Agriculture $20,000,000, to remain available until expended, to carry
out the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust, as authorized by the Bill
Emerson Humanitarian Trust Act (7 U.S.C. 1736f-1).
    Sec. 602.  In addition to the amounts otherwise available to the
Department of the Treasury, $52,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, to respond to the situation in Ukraine and for
related expenses:  Provided, That funds appropriated in this section in
this Act may be transferred to other appropriation accounts of the
Department of the Treasury, to respond to the situation in Ukraine and
for related expenses:  Provided further, That such transfer authority is
in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law.
    Sec. 603.  For <<NOTE: Anne Garland Walton.>>  payment to Anne
Garland Walton, beneficiary of Don Young, late a Representative from the
State of Alaska, $174,000.

[[Page 136 STAT. 1224]]

    Sec. 604.  Funds appropriated by this Act for intelligence or
intelligence related activities are deemed to be specifically authorized
by the Congress for purposes of section 504(a)(1) of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 605.  Each amount appropriated or made available by this Act is
in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year
involved.
    Sec. 606.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 607.  Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the additional
amounts appropriated by this Act to appropriations accounts shall be
available under the authorities and conditions applicable to such
appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2022.
    Sec. 608.  Each amount provided by this Act is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section
4001(a)(1) and section 4001(b) of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Additional Ukraine Supplemental
Appropriations Act, 2022''.

    Approved May 21, 2022.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 7691:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 168 (2022):
            May 10, considered and passed House.
            May 17, 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>